Added documentation for metrics generation (#44320)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/contribute/generate-ref-docs/metrics-reference.md

---

> title: Generating reference documentation for metrics

Reviewer: Thanks

Please also add a suitable `weight` and a `content_type` (which should be `task`)

---

<!-- overview -->

This page demonstrates the generation of metrics reference documentation

> ### Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "prerequisites-ref-docs.md" >}}
```

Author: I can make this change, but we don't really need more than the mentioned things for this generation,
_unless_ we're looking forward to add the generation to the python script in future (which is a good idea imo)

- You need a machine that is running Linux or macOS. (WSL for windows users)

> - You need a clone of the [Kubernetes/Kubernetes](https://www.github.com/Kubernetes/Kubernetes) repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need a clone of the [kubernetes/kubernetes](https://www.github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes) Git repository
```

<!-- steps -->

## Cloning the Kubernetes repository

> The metric generation happens in the Kubernetes repository. 
> To clone the repository, Change directories to where you want the clone to exist.
> 
> Then, execute the following command:
> 
> ```shell
> git clone https://www.github.com/Kubernetes/Kubernetes 
> ```
> 
> This should create a `Kubernetes` folder in your present working directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metric generation happens in the main Kubernetes code repository.
To clone the repository, change directories to where you want the clone to exist.

Then, execute the following command:

```shell
git clone https://www.github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes 
```

This creates a `kubernetes` folder in your current working directory.
```

## Generate the metrics

Inside the cloned repository, You will find a `/test/instrumentation/documentation` directory.
This is where the metrics are generated and maintained

> With each release, New metrics are added and the generation must be kept up to date

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With each release, new metrics are added and the generated documentation must be kept up to date.
```

To generate the latest metrics, Make sure you are in the root of the cloned Kubernetes directory. 
Then, execute the following command:

```shell
./test/instrumentation/update-documentation.sh
```

To check for changes, execute:

```shell
git status
```

The output is similar to

```
./test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation.md
./test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation-list.yaml
```

## Copy the generated metrics over to the website repository

### Setting the website root

execute the following command to set the website root:

```shell
export WEBSITE_ROOT=<path to website root>
```

replace `<path to website root>` with the path your kubernetes website root repository resides in

### Copy operation

This should copy the generated metrics over to the website repository

```shell

> cp ./test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation.md $WEBSITE_ROOT/content/en/docs/reference/instrumentation/metrics.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cp ./test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation.md "${WEBSITE_ROOT}/content/en/docs/reference/instrumentation/metrics.md"
```

```

{{< note >}}

> you might need `sudo` priviledges for the above command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get an error about privileges, check that you haven't set the ownership incorrectly.
You can use `chown` to change the file ownership back to your own user.
```

{{< /note >}}

## Creating a pull request

To create a pull request for the website, Follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the website repository

2. Make a new branch for generated metrics

```shell
git checkout -b <branch-name>
```

replace `<branch-name>` with the branch name, For example, metrics-generation.

3. Add the changes and commit them with a message

```shell
git add . && git commit -m "Generated latest metrics"
```

4. Push the changes

```shell
git push origin <branch-name>
```

> 5. Head over to your fork and make a pull request against the `main` branch of k8s/website repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Head over to your fork and make a pull request against the appropriate branch of the [k/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website) repository.
   See [choose which Git branch to use](/docs/contribute/new-content/#choose-which-git-branch-to-use) for more advice.
```

---
title: Generating reference documentation for metrics
content_type: task
weight: 100
---

<!-- overview -->

This page demonstrates the generation of metrics reference documentation

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "prerequisites-ref-docs.md" >}}

<!-- steps -->

## Cloning the Kubernetes repository

The metric generation happens in the Kubernetes repository. 
To clone the repository, Change directories to where you want the clone to exist.

Then, execute the following command:

```shell

> git clone https://www.github.com/Kubernetes/Kubernetes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://www.github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes
```

```

> This creates a `Kubernetes` folder in your current working directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates a `kubernetes` folder in your current working directory.
```

## Generate the metrics

> Inside the cloned repository, You will find a `test/instrumentation/documentation` directory.

Reviewer 2: Inside the cloned Kubernetes repository, locate the `test/instrumentation/documentation` directory. The metrics documentation is generated in this directory.

> Inside the cloned repository, You will find a `/test/instrumentation/documentation` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the cloned repository, You will find a `test/instrumentation/documentation` directory.
```

This is where the metrics are generated and maintained

> With each release, new metrics are added and the generated documentation must be kept up to date.

Reviewer 2: With each release, new metrics are added. After you run the metrics documentation generator script, copy the metrics documentation to the Kubernetes website and publish the updated metrics documentation.

To generate the latest metrics, Make sure you are in the root of the cloned Kubernetes directory. 
Then, execute the following command:

```shell
./test/instrumentation/update-documentation.sh
```

To check for changes, execute:

```shell
git status
```

The output is similar to

```
./test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation.md
./test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation-list.yaml
```

> ## Copy the generated metrics over to the website repository

Reviewer 2: Copy the generated metrics documentation file to the Kubernetes website repository

> ### Setting the website root

Reviewer 2: Set the Kubernetes website root environment variable

Reviewer 2: You could remove the headings (level H3) and instead use a numbered list.

```
1. Set the environment variable
1. Copy the file

```

> execute the following command to set the website root:

Reviewer 2: Execute the following command ...

```shell
export WEBSITE_ROOT=<path to website root>
```

> replace `<path to website root>` with the path your kubernetes website root repository resides in

Reviewer 2: nit: Do you need the sentence that begins with `replace ...`

Author: I've seen some issues with examples and notes, I think mentioning this would avoid future complaints

### Copy operation

> This should copy the generated metrics over to the website repository

Reviewer 2: Copy the generated metrics file to the Kubernetes website repository.

```shell
cp ./test/instrumentation/documentation/documentation.md "${WEBSITE_ROOT}/content/en/docs/reference/instrumentation/metrics.md"
```

{{< note >}}

> If you get an error about privileges, check that you haven't set the ownership incorrectly.

Reviewer 2: If you get an error, check that you have permission to copy the file.

You can use `chown` to change the file ownership back to your own user.
{{< /note >}}

## Creating a pull request

> To create a pull request for the website, Follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: This information is already found in the contributing pages. Can you link to that section instead of repeating the commands on this page?

1. Navigate to the website repository

2. Make a new branch for generated metrics

```shell
git checkout -b <branch-name>
```

replace `<branch-name>` with the branch name, For example, metrics-generation.

3. Add the changes and commit them with a message

```shell
git add . && git commit -m "Generated latest metrics"
```

4. Push the changes

```shell
git push origin <branch-name>
```

5. Head over to your fork and make a pull request against the appropriate branch of the [k/website](https://github.com/kubernetes/website) repository.
   See [choose which Git branch to use](/docs/contribute/new-content/#choose-which-git-branch-to-use) for more advice.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

> * [contribute-upstream](/docs/contribute/generate-ref-docs/contribute-upstream/)

Reviewer 2: nit: Contribute Upstream
